---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

title: Home
layout: page
---

Familias is a program for probability calculations when inferring
paternity and identification based on DNA data. Please go to
[http://familias.no] for free download of the program and documentation.
An extended tutorial is available in [English] and [Spanish]. Lourdes
Prieto Solla\'s blog [parentela] presents material relevant for Familias
users in Spanish. The web page you are visiting now contains information
on [R Familias], [Courses] and the [Book] \"Relationship Inference with
Familias and R\" by Egeland, Kling, and Mostad, available from
[Elsevier.] The Familias program (and previously the pater program) was
developed and maintained by [Petter Mostad] and [Thore Egeland] in the
period 1994-2009. Since 2010 Familias has been extended in several
directions (e.g., DVI (Disaster Victim Identification), familial
searching, simulation, plotting) by the current developer Daniel Kling.
Familias does not do computations for linked markers; for such
computations, you may consider [FamLink] or, for X-chromosomal markers
[FamLinkX][FamLink], both implemented by Daniel Kling. The [R version of
Familias], containing the core functionality of the windows version, was
released in 2014 by Petter Mostad. This R version is used for plotting
in Windows Familias and is also essential for Daniel Kling\'s software
[FamiliasPedigreeCreator], a simple tool to generate pedigree plots for
multiple Familias projects at once.

  [http://familias.no]: http://familias.no/
  [English]: {{ site.url }}/tutorial/familias_tutorial_english.pdf
  [Spanish]: {{ site.url }}/tutorial/familias_tutorial_spanish.pdf
  [parentela]: http://parentela.familias.name/#category5
  [R Familias]: http://www.familias.name/openfamilias.html
  [Courses]: http://www.familias.name/Courses.html
  [Book]: http://www.familias.name/book.html
  [Elsevier.]: http://store.elsevier.com/product.jsp?isbn=9780128024027
  [Petter Mostad]: http://www.math.chalmers.se/~mostad
  [Thore Egeland]: http://arken.umb.no/~theg
  [FamLink]: http://www.famlink.se/
  [R version of Familias]: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=Familias
  [FamiliasPedigreeCreator]: http://familias.no/english/download/
